Update statistics.markdown (#35839)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/statistics.markdown

The `statistics` integration observes the state of a source sensor and provides aggregated statistical characteristics about its recent past. This integration can be useful in automation, for example, to trigger an action when the air humidity in the bathroom settles after a hot shower or when the number of brewed coffees over a day gets too high.

> The `statistics` sensor can use either the numeric `sensor` or `binary_sensor` as it's input. The time period and/or number of recent state changes, which should be considered, must be given in configuration. Check the configuration section below for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statistics sensor can use either the numeric sensor or binary_sensor as its input. The configuration must include the time period and/or a number of recent state changes that should be considered. Check the configuration section below for details.
```

Assuming the [`recorder`](/integrations/recorder/) integration is running, historical sensor data is read from the database on startup and is available immediately after a restart of the platform. If the [`recorder`](/integrations/recorder/) integration is *not* running, it can take some time for the sensor to start reporting data because some characteristics calculations require more than one source sensor value.

{% tip %}

> The `statistics` integration is not the same as the [Long-term Statistics](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity/sensor/#long-term-statistics). More details on the differences can be found in the [2021.8.0 release notes](/blog/2021/08/04/release-20218/#long-term-statistics).

Reviewer: - We can remove the code fencing.
- I don't understand how this change is helping. "different to" or "not the same as the" are the same thing, you just made it more wordy. I would recommend reverting this change as it has no direct value.

```suggestion
The statistics integration is different to [Long-term Statistics](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/core/entity/sensor/#long-term-statistics). More details on the differences can be found in the [2021.8.0 release notes](/blog/2021/08/04/release-20218/#long-term-statistics).
```

{% endtip %}

> The `statistics` sensor has an internal buffer that stores the values it needs for the computation of the various functions (for example, `average_step`). The sensor is updated whenever new values are added to the buffer or when elements are removed. This is triggered either by a change of the source sensor (which may or may not change its actual value) or by values expiring (in cases where `max_age` was specified). This means that the buffer can hold a sequence of identical values in cases where values are not changing over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The statistics sensor has an internal buffer that stores the values it needs for the computation of the various functions (for example, average step). The sensor is updated whenever new values are added to the buffer or when elements are removed. This is triggered either by a change of the source sensor (which may or may not change its actual value) or by values expiring (in cases where max age was specified). This means that the buffer can hold a sequence of identical values in cases where values are not changing over time.
```

> When using a time-based buffer (by providing a `max_age`), it is recommended to ensure that the buffer contains at least a decent number of values spanning the full range of time. For sensors that don't change much, this can be achieved by using a template sensor with a time-based trigger as input. If the input values don't cover most of the time range, the computed output values could lead to unexpected results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a time-based buffer (by providing a max-age), it is recommended that the buffer contains at least a decent number of values spanning the full range of time. For sensors that don't change much, this can be achieved by using a template sensor with a time-based trigger as input. If the input values don't cover most of the time range, the computed output values could lead to unexpected results.
```

> Example: To find out whether a switch was used in the last 5 minutes, `count_on` could be used. However, if there are no frequent readings a single "Off" (maybe only a second ago) in the buffer would produce 0 even though the sensor was "On" for most of the last five minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example: To find out whether a switch was used in the last 5 minutes, "Count on" could be used. However, if there are no frequent readings a single "Off" (maybe only a second ago) in the buffer would produce 0 even though the sensor was "On" for most of the last five minutes.
```
